title: International Adult Skills Surveys: Andragogical Issues in Linguistic Minority Communities.
abstract: I have been working in the literacy field with francophone adults in a minority setting and in a
variety of capacities for twenty years, and consider myself a reflective and critical practitioner. I
strive to understand the world of adult education and skills development based on my practical
experiences and observations from the field. This text is written from that perspective, based on
principles of andragogy. Using inductive and deductive processes, I propose ideas and reflections
on the concept of the evaluation of basic skills of adults living in linguistic minority communities
in Canada. On the theoretical side, I use several key studies, including an analytical background
paper written for The Centre for Literacy’s 2013 Summer Institute by Jean-Pierre Jeantheau,
Chargé de mission national of the French Agence nationale de lutte contre l'illettrisme, on the
subject of linguistic minority groups and international literacy assessments.
Three personal professional experiences have particularly influenced my point of view. I am
currently engaged, albeit in a modest way, in the adaptation of an Anglophone assessment system
called CAMERA (Communication Math Employment Readiness Assessment) in francophone
contexts across Canada. I have also participated in creating the Ontario Adult Literacy
Curriculum Framework (OALCF) in 2010-2011, and I led, in 2007-2008, a project that
experimented with and evaluated Test of Workplace Essential Skills (TOWES) and Prose,
Document and Quantitative (PDQ) profile tests with francophone adults with lower literacy skills
(levels 1 and 2) in vocational training. The conceptual frameworks of all these tools (OALCF,
CAMERA, TOWES and PDQ) use, to various degrees, the same task-based methodology and
levels of complexity as the Essential Skills framework developed by the Department of Human
Resources and Skills Development Canada (HRSDC) and as international literacy surveys - the
1994 International Adult Literacy Survey (IALS), the 2003 International Adult Literacy and
Skills Survey (IALSS), and the current Programme for the International Assessment of Adult
Competencies (PIAAC).
In this report I propose that in order to grasp the limitations of such frameworks for official
language minority communities, we must look closely at the complex multilingual contexts in
which these communities live. I conclude by offering recommendations for conducting
international assessments and interpreting results in a way that takes into account the specific
context of these communities. I also outline some topics for future research in this area.
id: https://openalex.org/W2263683116
doi: nan
url: https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED547400.pdf
keyword: Andragogy
