title: Comparative Indicators of Education in the United States and Other G-20 Countries: 2015. NCES 2016-100.
abstract: SUMMArY iii
SUMMAry
Enrollment in Formal Education
In 2004, all or almost all 3- and 4-year-old children were enrolled
in preprimary or primary education in France and Italy. In the other
G-8 countries, at least three-quarters of 3- and 4-year-olds were
enrolled in preprimary or primary education, with the exception
of the United States, with 53 percent. Compulsory education, on
average, ends at age 18 in Germany; age 17 in the United States;
age 16 in Canada, France, and the United Kingdom; and age 15 in
Italy, Japan, and the russian Federation (indicator 2).
Foreign Students in Postsecondary Education
Among the G-8 countries, the United States had the most foreign
students (in absolute numbers) enrolled in higher education,1 but
foreign students made up a higher percentage of enrollment in
higher education in the United Kingdom (16 percent) as well as in
Germany, France, and Canada (11 percent each). The United States
was one of the countries with the smallest percentages of foreign
students (3 percent); the others were Japan (3 percent), Italy (2
percent), and the russian Federation (1 percent) (indicator 3).
Academic Performance
F o u r t h - G r a d e M a t h e m a t i c s a n d S c i e n c e
Performance
On the TIMSS 2003 fourth-grade assessment, higher percentages
of students in Japan than in the other G-8 countries reached each
established international benchmark in mathematics (indicator 4). In
the United States and Scotland, fourth-grade males scored higher, on
average, than fourth-grade females in both mathematics and science.
In Italy, males outperformed females only in mathematics, whereas in
England, Japan, and the russian Federation, there were no significant
differences by sex in mathematics or science (indicator 5).
Performance in Mathematics Literacy Among
15-Year-Old Students
On the PISA 2003 assessment, about one-quarter of 15-year-
old students in the United States scored at or below the lowest
proficiency level on the combined mathematics literacy scale, a
higher proportion of students than in Germany, France, Japan,
and Canada (indicator 6). Fifteen-year-old students in the United
States generally scored lower, on average, than their peers in the
same four G-8 countries on each of the four mathematics literacy
subscales: space and shape, change and relationships, quantity,
and uncertainty (indicator 7).
Introduction
This report describes how the education system in the United
States compares with education systems in the other Group of
Eight (G-8) countries. The G-8 countries—Canada, France, Germany,
Italy, Japan, the russian Federation, the United Kingdom, and the
United States—are among the world’s most economically devel-
oped countries. Comparative Indicators of Education in the United
States and Other G-8 Countries: 2006 draws on the most current
information about education from three primary sources: the In-
dicators of National Education Systems (INES) project, conducted
by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD); the 2003 Program for International Student Assessment
(PISA 2003), also conducted by the OECD; and the 2003 Trends
in International Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS 2003),
conducted by the International Association for the Evaluation of
Educational Achievement (IEA). Begun in 2002, the series is pub-
lished on a biennial basis.
It should be noted that most of the indicators in this report do not
contain data for the complete set of G-8 countries. For example,
Canada, France, and Germany did not participate in TIMSS 2003;
therefore, these countries do not appear in indicators using these
data. The United Kingdom is not included in indicators using PISA
2003 data due to low response rates; and in indicators using data
from TIMSS 2003, the United Kingdom is represented separately by
two of its component jurisdictions, England and Scotland.
The main findings of this report are summarized below. These
highlights are organized around the five major sections of the
report—population and school enrollment; academic performance;
context for learning; expenditure for education; and education
returns: educational attainment and income.
Population and School Enrollment
Youth Population
In 2006, the population of 5- to 29-year-olds (roughly the popula-
tion most likely to be enrolled in education) represented 34 percent
of the total population in the United States. In the other G-8
countries, the corresponding percentages ranged from 26 percent
in Italy to 34 percent in the russian Federation. In the past 10
years, the United States had the highest growth among the G-8
countries in the population of 5- to 29-year-olds, which increased
by 7 percent between 1996 and 2006 (indicator 1).
id: https://openalex.org/W2271176458
doi: nan
url: http://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED498383.pdf
keyword: Educational Attainment
